# Ord---1807718---Q1---Software-Development-Lifecycle
Why is a Version Control System useful when developing software both as an individual  developer and as part of a development team?

Version Control Systems (VCS) is a software tools which is used to support developers manage changes to their projects. VCS can track modifications that are made throughout the development process. They can also show who has made contributions and changes to the work and when these changes are made. This allows software developers to compare changes made between different versions of the same project or revert to a previous version of the report (The Test Tribe, 2023). VCS enable software development teams to speed up the successful deployment of a new piece of software thus reducing both labour hours and expenditure costs. (BosuMallick, 2022). Using a VCS also means that if you lose any files they can easily be recovered (Chacon and Straub 2023).

There are several different types of control systems such as Git, Subversion, Mercurial and Perforce. These systems vary in the sense that theuy all pose unquiqe features and commands. With that being said, each system shares universal concepts and functions. “Repository,” is a collection of files and their historic versions which is managed byu the VCS. A “Commit,” is an overview of the files at a specific time, this overview normally provides some context which describes the changes made to the project, when they are made and who made them. A “branch,” is a secondary version of the project which diverges from the main branch to severe a purpose. And a “merge,” is used to combine two or more branches together which will apply the changes made form one branch into the other (Prados 2023).

One of VCS most important capabilities is its means of supporting collaboration across a team of developers working on a project. VCS’s can adequately track team members using “branches,” which are used to create multiples copies of the same project for individual team members to work on. Those changes only become merged with the main project after the entire development team are satisfied with there work. This method of operating tackles the problems involved in tracking changes made by the members of the development team and greatly decreases the probability of overwriting another team members work (Tsitora 2020).

From the perspective of an individual developer, you may want to keep previously written code or revert to different aspects of an already completed project. VCS can achieve this as it allows you to revert a selected file back to a previous version of itself. You can revert an entire project back to a pervious version of itself and then use the stripped back version of the project as the foundations to develop a new project, saving the time and effort involved in conducting the groundwork. You can also revert an ongoing project to a previous state to identify and modify something that’ is causing issues in the code (Chacon and Straub 2023).
